docs: create lsp23 docs (#608)
lukso-network/docs: docs/standards/generic-standards/lsp23-linked-contracts-factory.md

---
sidebar_label: 'LSP23 - Linked Contracts Factory'
sidebar_position: 7
---

# LSP23 Linked Contracts Factory

:::info Standard Document

[LSP23 - Linked Contracts Factory](https://github.com/lukso-network/LIPs/blob/main/LSPs/LSP-23-LinkedContractsFactory.md)

:::

## Introduction

Deploying smart contracts that are interdependent can be a complex process. Often, two or more contracts need each other's addresses at deployment, creating a circular dependency that can be challenging to resolve.

![Circular Depedency](/img/standards/lsp23/circular-dependency.jpeg)

The LSP23 Linked Contracts Factory addresses this issue by providing a unified interface for deploying linked contracts with an optional post-deployment execution. This standard simplifies the deployment of complex contract systems, making it easier for developers to deploy interdependent contracts without the need for manual intervention.

## What does this standard represent?

> This standard represents a smart contract factory that allows users to deploy primary and secondary contracts that are linked together. It also supports deploying contracts as `ERC1167` proxies. The factory can execute post-deployment modules to perform additional logic after deploying the contracts (for example, it could pass the address of the secondary to the primary contract).

Reviewer: Not sure about the suggested changes for the `constructor` / initializer function.
Otherwise, maybe it would be good to define what is:
- the **primary** contract
- the **secondary** contract

```suggestion
This standard represents a smart contract factory that allows users to deploy **primary** and **secondary** contracts that are linked together. It also supports deploying contracts as `ERC1167` minimal proxies. The factory can execute post-deployment modules to perform additional logic after deploying the contracts (_example: pass the address of the secondary contract to the primary contract's `constructor` / initializer function_).
```

![LSP23 Flow](/img/standards/lsp23/lsp23-flow.jpeg)

> As [`LSP16`](./lsp16-universal-factory.md), the `LSP23` standard addresses the issue of deterministic address generation for contracts across different chains by generating the salt for contract deployment within the function, ensuring a fully decentralized deployment process. This approach guarantees consistent contract addresses across multiple chains and prevents address squatting, enhancing the security and integrity of the deployment process.

Reviewer: Same maybe a small sentence to explain "address squatting" would be good here?

```suggestion
Like [`LSP16`](./lsp16-universal-factory.md), the `LSP23` standard addresses the issue of deterministic address generation for contracts across different chains by generating the salt for contract deployment within the function, ensuring a fully decentralized deployment process. This approach guarantees consistent contract addresses across multiple chains and prevents "squatting addresses", enhancing the security and integrity of the deployment process.
```

## Specification

<!--

> Will uncomment when the dodocs has generated the docs for the LSP23 contract.

Reviewer: I suggest to add the auto-generated ABI docs already, even if they are not perfect.
And we can update them afterwards, once @b00ste has reviewed the Natspecs of LSP23.

:::tip

Check the [**LSP23 LinkedContractsFactory contract functions**](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp23-linked-contracts-factory.md) to know how to deploy contracts at the same address across different chains.
:::
-->

> The `LSP23LinkedContractsFactory` contract provides two main functions for deploying linked contracts: `deployContracts` and `deployERC1167Proxies`. Both functions allow the deployment of primary and secondary contracts, with optional post-deployment modules.

Reviewer: Will be good to put hyperlink to the ABI functions doc page once the ABI docs have been added.

Author: def!

#### deployERC1167Proxies

Deploys primary and secondary contracts as ERC1167 proxies and links them together. Optionally executes a post-deployment module.

_Parameters:_

- `primaryContractDeploymentInit`: Deployment parameters for the primary contract proxy.
- `secondaryContractDeploymentInit`: Deployment parameters for the secondary contract proxy.
- `postDeploymentModule`: Address of the post-deployment module to execute.
- `postDeploymentModuleCalldata`: Calldata for the post-deployment module.

_Returns_: address, address, the addresses of the deployed primary and secondary contract proxies.

#### PostDeploymentModule

Post-deployment modules are executed after the primary and secondary contracts are deployed. The `executePostDeployment` function is called with the addresses of the deployed primary and secondary contracts as well as the calldata for the post-deployment module.

_Parameters:_

- primaryContract: Address of the primary contract.
- secondaryContract: Address of the secondary contract.
- calldataToPostDeploymentModule: Calldata for the post-deployment module.

## Example

> The deployment process for a `Universal Profile` and its associated `Key Manager` involves a series of steps that ensure proper integration and ownership assignment between the two contracts. The `Universal Profile` serves as the primary contract, while the `Key Manager` functions as the secondary contract. Both contracts require each other's addresses during deployment.

Reviewer: Suggest adding links to the UP and KM standard page.
